# Contemporary Issues in Data (by Michael Wang)
The aim of this document is to shed light on some of the contemporary issues posed by the intricacy of data, especially with regards to data-privacy and advertising. I look at two articles that delve into these ideas. The first one is from Reuters about the D.O.J's lawsuit against Google for monopolistic control over the digital advertising industry. The second article is from the New York Times about Meta violating data privacy protection laws in the E.U. 
## [First Article](https://www.reuters.com/technology/us-set-sue-google-be-joined-by-about-eight-states-sources-2023-01-24/)

In yet another federal antitrust complaint filed against Google, the company finds itself in hot water again with the U.S. government. The Department of Justice accuses Google of monopolistic practices over the digital avertising market, fervently demanding that they must sell their ad-manager suite, an otherwise vital component of the company's long-time success with digital advertising. Reuters quotes the antitrust complaint's point of contention with Google, saying "Google has used anticompetitive, exclusionary, and unlawful means to eliminate or severely diminish any threat to its dominance over digital advertisting practices. The sentiment of this article is very much for the lawsuit against Google and understandably so. The gross amount of control and influence Google has in the digital marketing industry is extremely one-sided and introducing control is necessary to limit the company's power. Free market is necessary for inducing competition and this legislation will help to level the playing field across the board, changing how Big Tech must deal with the availiability of their data and how they intend to use it.     

To an extent, the article makes excellent points on Google's monopolistic hold over the digital advertising industry; Google's prevalence in the market makes it seem almost impossible to consider any other alternatives for advertising. With the rapid development of technology comes a plethora of opportunities to exploit the slow and bureaucratic U.S., swift action must be taken to limit the control of Google's influence so that the market remains a competitive environment. One interesting part of this subject is the evolution of litigation practices surrounding data exploitation and control and what it means for large tech corporations in the future.       

## [Second Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/04/technology/meta-facebook-eu-gdpr.html)
By happenstance, Meta also finds itself in hotter foreign waters with regards to the company's supposed invasive digital advertising practices, violating the E.U.'s 2018 landmark data protection bill which aims to protect internet user privacy. The main point of contention here is Meta's terms of service which include consent to personalized advertising for the user, violating the premises of the E.U.'s data protection bill. The total fine was a comparitively small $414 million of their $397 billion net worth (which is 0.001% of their total net worth). The E.U. has put forth basic legislation that serves as a framework for future cases, but the severity of the cases and the impact they have on Big Tech seems inconsequential. The small fine imposed on Meta seems as though it is disregardable, meaning these laws aren't doing enough to inspire enough change from within these companies. 

Big Tech seems to be able to achieve more outside of the U.S. to the point where the benefits of expansion of advertising campaigns would outweigh the con of receiving fines, meaning there is seemingly nothing being done to protect users in the short-run. If Big Tech needs to change soon, it must happen under the guidance of entities who understand both the law and the rapid growth of technology. However, those same entities that would be working against Meta, most likely would be working for Meta instead because it is simply common sense, people are inclined to seek out where they will gain the most. 